Forensic Psychologist job description
A Forensic Psychologist is a specialist who applies psychological knowledge to the criminal justice system, providing assessments, expert testimony, and support in understanding criminal behavior and mental health. They work with courts, prisons, and law enforcement agencies.


A forensic psychologist is a specialist who applies their knowledge and understanding of psychology to the criminal justice system, either as an expert witness or practitioner. They assess individuals, conduct psychological evaluations, and provide expert opinions on competency and criminal behavior.


A forensic psychologist assesses individuals to establish cognitive abilities and behavioral/mental health. They perform competency, triage, and suicide risk assessments, compile reviews of each patient, and provide expert testimony in court. They also consult with multidisciplinary teams, educate on psychological issues, and administer psychological tests.

Forensic Psychologist responsibilities include:
Assessing individuals to establish cognitive abilities and behavioral/mental health
Helping those in need by performing competency, triage, and suicide risk assessments
Compiling quantitative and qualitative reviews of each patient

Job brief
We are looking for a Forensic Psychologist who is observant and empathetic to assist our team with psychological assessments and to conduct a range of tests to support our team.

Forensic Psychologist responsibilities include providing expert opinion on competency for trial, performing psychological assessments on inmates to help them transition back into society successfully once released from incarceration (or prison). If you enjoy interacting with patients and care about the justice system, we’d like to meet you. Please share your past experience along with your application.

Ultimately, you will be able to put personal feelings aside during an evaluation and maintain highly detailed results on each patient. You will remain unbiased in evaluations of an applicant’s competency or recidivism risk level.

Responsibilities
Provide expert oral and/or written testimony as required by the court
Take on difficult cases with empathy and professionalism
Complete reports, documentation, and other tasks according to applicable standards
Act as a consultant for multidisciplinary teams and coaching psychology students
Educate clinical teams on psychological issues
Create, evaluate, and initiate correctional programs
Administering, scoring, and reporting the results of testing
Be on-call as needed

Requirements and skills
Proven work experience as a Forensic Psychologist or similar role
Excellent people skills
Proficient understanding of mental and behavioral diversity
Excellent problem-solving skills
Ability to make tough decisions in stressful situations
State licensure
Proficient organizational skills
Outstanding communication skills, both verbal and written
Doctoral degree in psychology