HR Officer job description
A Human Resources (HR) Officer is responsible for managing every aspect of the employment process, including orientation and training new staff members. They also assist with payroll management, so employees receive their paychecks on time. 

Human Resources Officer responsibilities include:
Supporting the development and implementation of HR initiatives and systems
Providing counseling on policies and procedures
Being actively involved in recruitment by preparing job descriptions, posting ads and managing the hiring process

Job brief
We are looking for a skilled HR Officer who will recruit, support and develop talent through developing policies and managing procedures. You will be responsible for administrative tasks and you’ll contribute to making the company a better place to work.

If you are passionate about HR and highly efficient, give us a chance to meet you. We expect you to have knowledge of various HR functions. We want to see a committed and approachable individual and be impressed with your character and skills.

The goal will be to provide excellent assistance and support to employees and managers.

Responsibilities
Support the development and implementation of HR initiatives and systems
Provide counseling on policies and procedures
Be actively involved in recruitment by preparing job descriptions, posting ads and managing the hiring process
Create and implement effective onboarding plans
Develop training and development programs
Assist in performance management processes
Support the management of disciplinary and grievance issues
Maintain employee records (attendance, EEO data etc.) according to policy and legal requirements
Review employment and working conditions to ensure legal compliance
Requirements and skills
Proven experience as HR officer, administrator or other HR position
Knowledge of HR functions (pay & benefits, recruitment, training & development etc.)
Understanding of labor laws and disciplinary procedures
Proficient in MS Office; knowledge of HRMS is a plus
Outstanding organizational and time-management abilities
Excellent communication and interpersonal skills
Problem-solving and decision-making aptitude
Strong ethics and reliability
BSc/BA in business administration, social studies or relevant field; further training will be a plus
HR Credentials (e.g. PHR from the HR Certification Institute)