Supply Chain Manager job description
A Supply Chain Manager is a professional who is in charge of every stage of an organization’s supply chain, from purchasing raw materials to production. They must ensure that the product comes at just the right time and coordinate storage for it, so nothing goes missing or gets damaged along this complex process.

What is a supply chain manager?
Supply chain managers develop and monitor a company’s supply chain strategy. Their goal is to improve productivity and efficiency and reduce costs while securing high quality material for their company.

What does a supply manager do?
Supply chain managers keep track of logistics and update the company’s inventory. They analyze operational performance and resolve issues. They also collaborate with vendors and suppliers to ensure all operations (e.g. shipping, delivery) meet quality and safety standards.  

Supply chain manager responsibilities include:
Analyzing supply chain data and performance
Maintaining inventory 
Supervising and training employees
What skills do you need to be a supply chain manager?
Supply chain managers usually have a degree in Supply Chain Management, Logistics, Business or similar field. They have an excellent understanding of supply chain processes and good knowledge of relevant software and ERP systems. Overall, supply chain manager duties require great project management and problem-solving skills. Make sure to include these as requirements when crafting your own supply chain manager job description. 

Job brief
We are looking for an experienced supply chain manager to  ensure our supply chain and logistics operations function properly. 

In this role, you’ll collaborate with other departments, such as Operations and Finance, to create effective business plans, so teamwork skills are important. You should also have experience in project management, as well as great leadership and communication ability.

If you meet these criteria and also possess a strategic, analytical mind, we’d like to hear from you.

Responsibilities
Create the company’s supply chain strategy
Analyze data from shipping and delivering processes to find bottlenecks and other issues 
Evaluate and report on KPIs 
Monitor logistics to make sure they run smoothly 
Maintain supply chain inventory and records
Train and guide employees
Find cost-effective solutions for supply chain processes
Resolve issues that come up (e.g. delays in delivery, accidents)
Collaborate with other departments to create coordinated plans for business growth
Develop and implement safety guidelines in all aspects of the supply chain (e.g. use of trucks, forklifts)
Ensure supply chain processes meet legal requirements and standards
Communicate and negotiate with suppliers and vendors to land more profitable deals
Requirements and skills
Previous experience as a supply chain manager or in a similar field
Excellent knowledge of supply chain processes 
Working experience of relevant software (e.g. SAP MM)
Strong communication skills
Excellent organizational and project management skills
Attention to detail
Creative problem-solving
A strategic and analytical mind
Degree in Supply Chain Management, Logistics, or similar field